# A to the K - SKO
## Contextualise
A to the K Computational Typography studio aims to explore and engage with the field of computational language and typography. This is a rapid changing world, as we advance more in the digital world of computers and phones, understanding and utilising techniques in computational coding makes this studio a dynamic and necessary discipline to must engage in. Computational typography is the future development of typography, in the exploration and expansion of modularity and variability, typography is becoming more diverse and out there. With the incorporation of computational programming, ideas are becoming more creative, the assistance of computational elements allow typography to become individual and stand on its own. As a designer, knowing how to code is essential in future practices, being conscious of the changes in design and society is impactful and a necessity, to effectively communicate and engage with others and advance the perception of typography and design.

A to the K studio explored step and step of typography design, not rushing straight into the production of computations and programming. Take a step back and explore what is in front of us in the present, to understand typography and systems, through first physically exploring with our hands of real objects. To understand that typography requires standardisation and systematic approaches, as computation and programming often require logical and systematic representation. Although, through this studio I haven’t become a professional in coding and typography, but it has broadened my skills and understanding of typography, which will become handy and take into consideration in future design projects, or potentially open me more into the world of programming and coding. 
