# Reflect 

Undertaking the A to the K studio has been an extremely engaging and beneficial experience for my practice whether outside or inside of design. Coding is a beneficial, and I believe will be a major skill set for practicing in the field of design in the future. As technology advances and broadens the uses and potential of computation in various field of work, design is also being expanded and placed more on technological mediums and platforms. Knowing how to code can expand ones skill set to showcase to clients and broaden the depth of design projects. During the course of this studio, my depth of understanding in coding has expanded and become less terrified of the idea of coding and computational design. By opening my mind to coding, design has become more motion and moveable in comparison to solidified and constant print designs. It has allowed many of my ideas to come to light and given me a new tool set to explore more variations in my future design projects. Using motion and interaction draws people to engage and fully immerse in the design, when users interact with the medium, they not only have fun but also absorb the information designers want to communicate. By creating an interactive space for the user, the engagement of users and information absorption increases, and more information can be communicated. As technology advances and change occurs so often now, the attention spans of people have dropped and people know often rely on more technological approaches to retrieve information and knowledge. By establishing a fun and engaging way to capture people’s attention is becoming much more easier with interactive technology and interactive design. 

Before going straight into coding and computational typography, we took a step back and went into developing typography first by scratch and using physical objects. Using only one element to form twenty six glyphs, where the typeface has to have a system or set of standardisation so that if someone else was to replicate it a set of rules were to bind the glyphs together into one. This step back was important because it gave me the chance to step back and have a background experience before diving straight into coding. Having this chance, it clarified and solidified the element of system and standardisation. Initially, it seemed quite chill and fun to go around and find objects to build letters out of, until I realised not all letters can fit into the system. When that happened, the system had to be altered and adjusted so that the rules can fulfill all twenty six glyphs. From experimenting and being able to physically change the objects around made the process both frustrating but also therapeutic. Once the rule was established it was just a matter of moving, adding and removing pieces. But while establishing rules, the system also can not be too broad, having the system too broad can sometimes make it seem like there is no rule of standardisation. Initially for my texta placements I had just the amount of textas used as the main set of rule that even if some aren’t used it still needs to be in the frame, however, the end result seemed really messy and inconsistent using different colours. Therefore, more rules needed to be set and a clearer set of standardising was needed. This made me realise that taking a step back and understanding the basics before jumping into the deep end is important, and typography really requires standardisation and systematic approaches. From creation both letting go and exploring a wide range of creative modules is important but also bringing it back, taking it step by step and restraining ourselves to design a system and to stick with. 

Personally, through this studio an important insight is the need to stay patient and pay attention to detail. Especially in the process of coding, paying attention and being precise with the right codes and spelling is essential to make the code work. Having the hour of code, really benefited my learning and understanding of coding, I initially was terrified of coding as I had never done it before and the concept of it just confused me especially the computational language. But through the hour of code every week, it really relieved my terror towards coding and it made me more engaged and interested in coding. Throughout the process of coding, being alert and precise with the coding language is extremely important for the line of code to work. In coding, the most annoying thing is when I run the code and the page continues loading and loading, that’s when I knew something was not right. Having to go through the entire code line by line really tests your patience, especially when it’s the smallest thing missing, and sometimes I don’t register the mistake. For example, when loading a font, I kept looking at the coding and thinking I didn’t save or drag the font in or something in my draw function was missing but it turned out I forgot to use a capital f for loadFont. As my understanding of coding grew and my interest deepened, though this studio I realised that patience and attention to detail is just as important as the design itself. Even if the design is magnificent, not having the patience to slowly piece it together and mould it, it won’t be born and shown. In the design practice, nothing is just going to appear once you think of it, step by step production is needed to actually curate and build it, through this studio it has solidified my understanding in code and design mindset. 
